the idea of maths and physics going
together is something that's pretty
obvious you can roll the book downhill
or measure how fast it goes in equation
and work out what's going on behind the
scenes after thing but people have tried
in the past quite a few times to do the
same thing for humans and it's proved to
be quite tricky because we are prone to
silly things like decisions and so but
that's kind of changed really in the
last 10 years or so a little bit longer
which is that we now have data if
absolute everything that we're doing and
so you can look through that data and
start to study ourselves as humans in
the same way that you can physical
systems and I'm still a lot Messier
granted but there are ways to pick up on
the patterns that you can find in the
data and what are these patterns anyway
the big ones are your favorites my
favorites
I really like is the way that people
move around when they're just walking
because thing is that quite often you
can be any massive square where it's
really busy lots of people in different
direction and somehow about their age
managed to avoid walking into other
people and it's actually because people
automatically adjust their paths based
on what's going on around them without
even necessarily realizing the buzz well
their day you're kind of looking at
somebody gauging their speed and
adjusting your speed exercise later to
remember to just miss them and this and
that the sort of hidden interactions if
you like between people is most obvious
when you put people in a confined space
so for instance if you are walking down
a corridor right a really busy corridor
Betsey's up with a school corridor when
the bells just wrong so there's loads of
people corridor
and they're walking different directions
so it's something that wakes up the game
that way when you are in that situation
you effectively have two choices right
you can either just ignore everybody put
your head down with a bottom way through
right which is like the rude way today
or you can do what everyone else does
which is to pick someone who's going in
the same direction as you and then
follow them right you know dudes at
train stations as well um but what that
means is that because people are making
this kind of invisible connections with
other people you end up with these lanes
of traffic that form from nowhere
so next time you're in a busy corridor
if you kind of look above the heads of
people you I guarantee you will see that
there are these lanes of traffic there
no I say often it you get people on one
side on either side rather than walking
one direction and then people down the
middle walking another direction and
that kind of stuff nobody ever said if
you're going in that direction walk in
down Lane and that direction in that
lane but that's the kind of thing that
people do automatically just because
we're subtly influencing each other's
behaviors and that is something that you
can really only analyze if you're
looking at human pay via through that
lens of data and writings what about the
example though license
well everyone experiences it when
there's two of you and if you walk and a
new stuff and they're yeah you're like
it's kind of seen it'll do nothing
you don't go if get on that bags cuz I
cause Johnson he said that if you walk
down the street and you just sign you're
not getting out of anyone's way then
people go out your way it's left right
it's quite fun yeah just completely
disproves your whole bottle about well
because maybe God knows you can still
have people who are who don't care about
you know about making these kind of
interactions and that's what makes
modeling human so tricky because you do
have people who buck the trend
you can't ever capture absolutely
everybody